#Additional recommedations

The basic fundametals of content personalization: you will need to establish demographics for users. I'd store their country and first 3 digits of zip code/post code, age, sex, and a set of clustering tags. For videos you need to categorize them by genre/subgenre/director/actors at a minimum. Netflix does deep analysis on all its content to generate many more tags. Then you can do similarity clustering, so based on watching one video, what are the most similar. Videos sometimes come in episodes and series, so you need to understand that, as well as thematic connections like James Bond films. Then you need to keep a history of everything the users watch, so you can use that to generate popularity scores for content, filter out things users have already seen, and figure out what genres and actors etc. the users like.

The demographic clustering tags could be generated empirically, but for a quick hack it's things that divide customers culturally. Are they comfortable with LGBT content, sex, violence, religious content, etc.

If users rate content, with stars or thumbs up. Then there's a way to predict with a model whether a particular user will rate a particular bit of content highly. Search for the Netflix Prize Algorithm from 2008 or so to see examples.
So the simplest personalization algorithm is : recommend the most popular thing for that users demographic that they havent seen already. The next one is : you watched this, so the next thing you should watch is that (next episode for a series is obvious).

FInally, a touch of realism: you can't get access to the Netflix API (and I assume other content companies are similar) without a contractual relationship. They block people from scraping their site, or poison the content if they detect a scraper. They don't want to enable gatekeeper meta-search services, and don't want people to wrap their own content with advertising they don't control. 